foreign
Patel here welcome to another episode of
Shake sales I got Jason Bay of outbound
Squad I'm super pumped hockey Jason
welcome
um for those folks that don't know you
would you mind just giving a quick intro
uh yeah I'm excited to be here thank you
for having me uh so I run a company
called outbound Squad and really what
I'm on a mission to do is help reps turn
complete strangers into paying customers
so usually happens in a couple ways you
know one really big thing we talk about
obviously because the name is outbound
you know so if you're sending a lot of
cold Outreach cold emails making cold
calls how do we get people to be more
receptive you know to speaking with us
and get those meetings and we work with
a lot of account Executives as well so
once we do get that first meeting
how do we run a great discovery call
that doesn't feel like I'm just being
qualified and hammered with interview
style questions the entire time and and
then how do we run an engaging demo
where we get a group of people on and
you know not bore everyone to death with
our you know slide deck so how do we
kind of Advance those sales to close as
well but uh I really enjoy working with
in Tech there's a lot of younger reps
that are in their first five years other
sales career those are the ones that end
up being a lot of our clients that need
some of the foundational stuff that
we're uh gonna talk about today
love it and speaking of foundational
um stuff you know one of the things
we're talking about before we hit record
was just around speaking the same
language right I think yeah I see this
way too often in our customers emails
and and you know one of the biggest
things I see is like what you're
describing the words you're using to
describe your product offering
one they suck or they're too long
um or and this is the biggest one it's
like the customers like Blank Stare
during the headlight but what does that
mean like if I were to go sell and we're
going to use mailshake as a good example
here
um
sales engagement platform first of all
what the heck does that mean to like 99
of people who are not in Tech in startup
and maybe they're in sales but they they
don't you know they don't actually think
about
they don't look at the category of sales
engagement so
um and you mentioned you see that quite
often right in in with clients and then
folks uh just use the wrong language
yeah so what kind of came to mind as you
were sharing that is I think that a lot
of companies
it's like dude unless you're Apple or
Google you're not really
creating new language around how to
describe something that people are going
to be like oh yes we're going to start
using that way to talk about this it
just doesn't work like that and this is
something I actually talked to Jed about
a long time ago who's on your team when
he joined I was like dude outside of
tech because I work with companies
outside of tech too like a lot of them
don't even
know what a sales engagement tool or a c
like you say sequence they don't even
know what that means yeah you know so I
think what we're what we're doing though
is like knowing the prospect that you're
talking to what's really important is
the universal language between a sales
rep or a sales professional and a
prospect is in business outcomes and
business challenges that's the universal
language that both of you can speak in
and understand
so we have to remove the product in the
features and all of that kind of stuff
from the conversation so when I'm
teaching cold calling let's say for
example
uh let me ask you I'm kind of curious
what you think so there's there's a lot
of data from gong on this on a
successful cold call what percentage of
the time
does a rep let's say typically speak on
that call versus a prospect what do you
think
oh I think uh I think it's probably 80
radical
okay so you actually guessed the
opposite of what most people guess which
is we're taught in sales you should
speak less than the prospect right
usually people guess 20 30 rep it's
actually about 55 rep 45 Prospect
according to gong's study of about a
hundred thousand cold calls but I bring
that up
because it's important that like as a
rep you were driving these conversations
but it's the content
of the conversation
it's what you talk about that's more
important than how much time you spend
talking
and to add context in a cold call for
example like in the first 60 seconds and
and feel free we can get as tactical as
you'd like with like how to conduct the
first 60 seconds but you should be
talking about the Prospect and what
people like them are focused on and the
challenges that they're having versus
hey I'm calling from mailshake or sales
engagement tool we work with all these
cool companies I'd like to tell you how
we can help automate your reps Outreach
and help them set more meetings and it's
like click you know yeah no one's gonna
listen to that yeah and I I completely
agree with you here I think
I always try to coach people I do more
emails coaching and feedback it's like
your first sentence should not be about
your name your company what you do and
customers you've got that is like the
last thing it's in a an objection
right then it is a solution it should be
around like hey are you looking to
increase your close rate by you know
blah blah blah I don't know I'm just I'm
just throwing things out there but like
reality is like too many people talk
about themselves and in their like their
everyone's in this little bubble of like
this is what I do and reality is like
your client the customer the prospect
they don't give a crap about what you do
you gotta get them to care right so how
how do you
like in a mailshake example sales
engagement what would you say like
would be the the first line or the first
like the opening side of a cold call
yeah I'm putting you on I'm throwing you
in there in the weeds here so no this is
great you know I hate is listening to a
sales podcast where they talk about
conceptual stuff and they need to get
nothing actionable
so yeah I I get as tactical as you'd
like so
um
if we're talking cold calls specifically
let's just set this up there's a couple
of important things to know so the
average cold call uh chorus has got some
really good insights on this only lasts
about 80 Seconds
so your time that cold call whether you
land a meeting or not or get a Next Step
it's really one and lost in the first
like really 30 to 60 Seconds
so there's a couple things that we want
to acknowledge in the very beginning
um how many calls do you get a day
because you're you're a founder of a
cool company and do a lot of other cool
man I'm sure you get a lot of calls
and emails how many calls do you get
every day
I got like 10 calls a day at least
um yeah and I accidentally pick up one
right yeah so accidentally so I think
the first thing we have to acknowledge
is that no one for the most part picks
up cold calls on purpose so they're
expecting you to be someone else so the
first thing I really suggest using is
what's called a permission based opener
and essentially what we're going to do
is we're going to allow the prospect to
opt into the conversation
because we called them they didn't ask
us to call
let's see if they want to participate
so instead of saying you know hey this
is Jason with outbound Squad I'm calling
to talk about XYZ I'm gonna say hey uh
sujan this is Jason with outbound Squad
I know we've probably caught you in the
middle of something you got 30 seconds
for me to tell you the reason for my
call you can let me know if you want to
keep chatting
or hey uh Susan I was calling about all
the refs that you're hiring at mailshake
right now oh by the way it's Jason with
outbound Squad you got a minute for me
to share more and you can decide if you
want to keep talking
nine out of ten times if you do that
first part uh correctly and have good
tone and tonality and pace and all that
kind of stuff you'll get like okay what
do you got
so that's different I like it yeah and
then the second part that's where if we
get some more customization so what
you're gonna the Instinct here that you
have to fight against is you're going to
want to pitch at this point you're going
to want to talk about your stuff
so I want to do the exact opposite of
what the prospect is expecting and what
most reps do is I'm going to actually
talk about what we do through the lens
of a customer so I'll just give you mine
I call these a priority drop so I'm just
going to share what let's pretend that
you're a VP of sales right because
that's my my target audience so I do my
permission based opener and then I'm
going to say
great appreciate you taking the time
we're actually working with a few
similar companies right now Zoom uh gong
a couple others and what we keep hearing
from their sales Executives is one of
two focuses one is around account
executive self-sourcing so they want
their AES to do more prospecting get to
30 self-sourced opportunities increase
pipeline coverage that kind of thing and
then number two is more around running
tight sales Cycles so they're having to
do more multi-threading CFOs are getting
involved in deals more than they ever
have and it's really all about running a
tight sales motion are either of those
two by chance something that you're
focused on right now or is it something
different altogether
and usually the response I get to that
is like oh yeah it's definitely number
one or definitely number two because
this is what I hear in sales calls every
sales call I do it's like one of those
two things
so we could pause here I think that the
big takeaway is I want to opt get the
opt-in
the permission based opener and the
priorities that language
think back to all the sales calls that
you have and hopefully you're recording
them dude you're going to find patterns
in specific types of prospects you speak
with for me a VP of sales you're going
to find patterns in what their
priorities are
and then I want to basically do a very
targeted messaging based on Persona
which I could customize a bit if I saw
that you guys are hiring or just
launched a new product or whatever it
might be but that's how I'm going to
open up that first 60 seconds of the
call I want to
basically put bumper guards up on the
conversation and make sure that we're
talking about something that you already
hear about
I love it I mean first and foremost just
the opener right you
are acknowledging that you did not like
you're acknowledging the behavior that's
happening on the other end versus just
jumping into like the second thing and
then I love the fact that you're putting
bumpers and identifying potential
problems right and then you you did
mention like personalization that could
happen but that's not necessary like if
you would say like Hey we're hiring
based off any research you found on
maybe job openings whatever
um did some research or hey you know you
didn't have to and it still both ends it
still felt fairly personalized because
you were very specific on identifying
what I would call problems that are VP
of sales are facing regardless of where
they're at
yeah and it's definitely prevalent you
know a lot of my customer base is in SAS
so it's you know the whole account
executive thing
like I wouldn't say that if I was
talking to like other companies I work
with like are like recruiting and
Professional Services companies like
they don't even call them account
Executives so I wouldn't say AES right
there's like little things that you kind
of need to tweak but uh
you know this is the same principles
that marketers is you know when you
think about like when you read an
article that really just hits with you
and really it's like for a Founder let's
say of a software company like you are
and it really resonates with you it's
it's like so specific it's not
personalized to your situations but it's
talking about what something like people
like you were dealing with and it's
articulating the problem maybe in a
better way than you can and that's what
you want to do and that's what I think
the future of prospecting and outbound
all that kind of stuff is I mean this is
a marketing activity your appointment
setting so think more like a marketer
what good marketers do is they're really
good at using the language that their
customers use and articulating stuff
especially in written form better than
the people that are actually
experiencing it
yeah I love it I think uh you know again
background my backgrounds in marketing
were a b testing
click-through rates headline copy it's
the same thing with words and people
think I feel like in sales you just
forget like oh I'm selling like I'm
talking to people it's live yeah but you
could still like you let's see you know
you did a bunch of you know you have
five days of cold calls every day you
block out an hour or two every morning
you could still learn from your previous
days it's it might not be quantitative
measurable exact data but you're finding
few folks actually resonate with some
positive verbiage or certain things
you're saying or problems
that's froth for the next day right or
the next call it's my I bet if you went
back and analyzed the actual data like
marked every single call that you had
and then the ones that were engaged
you'd get similar data to what marketing
does when you know a headline hits
better than another one
no television
yeah another hack that I would recommend
too I don't see enough people do is if
you're an account executive again
hopefully you're recording your sales
calls but if you're an SDR listen to
sales calls with account Executives with
that specific Prospect
and they share in these sales calls what
they're focused on
and it was like a cold call is like a
really miniature version of an intro
call with a customer like they should
feel like there's a continuation between
the two so use all of the language that
your customers and your buyers share
through the sales process use that for
outbound messaging as well and it's it's
in those recordings
the other thing that you could look for
too is uh case studies testimonials it
could be competitor case studies and
testimonials as well anything that where
you're getting the language that your
buyers are using to articulate their
problem you want to use that same
language back
yeah love it I mean it's it's the
simplest form of mirroring right
um yep and and uh I feel like mirroring
I've done it in job interviews again
marketing right like you marketing
content towards Founders versus the VP
of marketing
different right uh but anyways this is
awesome and and I know you've got a lot
of courses
um relating to like addressing probably
most of these issues right
um on on outbound
um on outboundsquad.com right um can you
talk about a little bit about that like
what are you what so you know I know you
have an individual I'm going to give you
a great sales pitch okay set you up for
describing your product so or your your
offering so you got individuals who's
that for what's what is that for like
sdr's AES
yep sdrs bdrs mostly it's for sdrs and
beaters that are you know aspirational
AES so they're doing that as you know a
uh the minor leagues so to speak or uh
yeah to uh to become an account
executive and to really learn how to
sell and then account Executives of
course that care a lot about actually
doing outbound and self-sourcing
Pipeline and that kind of thing
gotcha and then your sales teams who's
that who's that like what size teams
who's that for typically
yeah so we have a couple different types
of offers depending on the team but
there's you know there's under 20 reps
typically there's more of a one-to-many
you know kind of Workshop style open to
the public offers that we have and then
we do a lot of custom type of work too
for folks that have anywhere from 50
reps to 250 plus reps
love it yeah it's one of one of the
things I highly recommend for any any VP
of sales or head of sales is
for for better outcome of your
outcome for your your quarterly numbers
your quota whatever and for employee
retention is to get your team trained up
and constantly be educating but then not
just educating taking that whatever you
know they they sign up for outbound
Squad they learn about multi-threading
well then they have to actually apply it
right and I find that this is the best
retention met uh possible it's like
because you why would you leave a
company where they're giving you every
single opportunity to level up and hit
your numbers
um and then at the end of the day if I'm
a VP of sales perspective or CEO
perspective okay I spent XYZ dollars and
it actually showed up in Q2 Q3 Q4
numbers here you go can I have some more
budget please right and you just keep
doing this and and you know again your
team is just getting smarter and smarter
uh so so anyways thanks for sharing that
detail what would you say from like a
cold call I know we talked about cold
calling communication inside where do
you think people
um suffer the most or like what's the
biggest pain point is that is it the
first line is it just like addressing
the hey I'm I'm interrupting your day or
is it like describing your product is it
where do you where do you see it
yeah I mean there's a whole call
reluctance piece that I think you know
we could spend some time talking about
if you want I mean just picking up the
phone and making the dialysis very
challenging for most people
um I think that if you have call
reluctance and you're listening to this
or watching it and you're thinking oh
God I kind of like don't pick up the
phone a lot because I just I don't like
the rejection
um know that hey that's totally normal
uh to feel like that like what we do on
a daily basis in sales like getting
rejected 90 plus percent of the time
like if you have a 10 success rate
that's like good on the phone so you
know what I mean
um and like 90 rejection that's not a
normal thing for a human being to have
to deal with on a daily basis
so I think if you can reframe like what
your goal is if you make the goal of the
phone call not to land a meeting but to
just see if the person is willing to
engage in a conversation with you so
kind of like a reframe the goal a bit I
think the other thing too is to really
think about
and this is a required me going to lots
of years of therapy but uh to not take
the rejection as a personal attack on
you or to feel bad about what you're
doing
um I'm a really firm believer that
prospects don't want to be rude if we
just give them lots of reasons to be
so when we do things like pitch our
solution and we try to sell something to
a complete stranger basically within 60
seconds of meeting them
that's just not a very human thing to do
that just doesn't play out in your
everyday life no one likes those kinds
of interactions so why are you doing
that in this role you know so I think
there's the reluctance piece
um but yeah it's absolutely the first 60
seconds I think from there
it's about having some really good
questions and understanding the problem
I think what's really tough as an SDR is
that you probably haven't sold anything
before so you're a business Acumen and
you're probably new in your career
you've you don't really have a lot of
business acumen
so you don't understand that
hey when when people decide to hop on a
call with mailshake let's say to use
mailshake
what they care less about is the demo
and what they care more about is the
outcome they're hoping that mailshake
will deliver for them and they care a
lot about hey if I have a big team of
people how do I make sure everyone uses
this because we have a lot of software
already that most of our team doesn't
use
you know so they're thinking about stuff
past the sale like the buying part is
like that's the work hasn't even started
yet for the buyer they have to implement
the solution
so I think if you kind of bring
everything into context with that call
you're really just gauging interest to
see if they want to explore it
that's it that's all you're trying to
accomplish and if you can have some good
problem-based questions that kind of tee
up challenges that typical customers are
having
that what I I would say is the next kind
of big hack the second one
is you need to be really well versed in
customer stories
and if you could share hey the reason
I'm calling you is that we have a
similar customer like x y and z
is dealing with this challenge how does
that resonate with what you're dealing
with right now
right and you're trying to really use
social proof Theory
to get the person you're speaking with
to see
themselves in a similar situation to
their peers
and that's essentially what you're doing
so I think even less pitching less about
the solution and more about like hey
your world right now based on what other
people like you are dealing with like
are you dealing with something similar
well we might be able to help you
like let's talk about that later on a
call and like how that works and what
that looks like the buyer doesn't want
to know what the features are if you're
talking to an executive at least they
just want to know like does your thing
help with things that they care about
and do you have best-in-class peers that
you've worked with that they would
recognize like those are the really the
big things
fair enough I love it I mean this is
you've already dropped
for the 60 seconds and the hundred times
you're gonna make those 60 second calls
in a day maybe 100 hundreds of times
I I think this is game changer so for
the we'll leave the the video at that
for those AES sdrs heads of sales
take this go apply it and then and then
go come go back I'm gonna just open this
up for you go back and go ping Jason for
with questions or better yet go sign up
for
um his course
um you know it's it's Pennies on how
much revenue or gains you can get by
just again we talked about we spent 20
minutes talking about 60 seconds right
um there's a whole lot more there there
to unpack and as you go through this is
a lot more so Jason thanks again uh for
hopping on again outboundsquad.com yeah
appreciate it come connect with me we
got a lot tons of free resources on
there too for you to check out so we got
a podcast as well I post every day on
LinkedIn outbound squad.com is the best
place to to check it out
[Music]
foreign